When we think about it,
eight and a half million Jehovah’s Witnesses,
like you and me,
are in the process of fulfilling
our text for today.
And that is taken from Psalm 133:1.
It says:
“Look! How good and how pleasant it is
for brothers to dwell together in unity!”
So we are so privileged and proud
to be part of this organization.
Jehovah has drawn each one of us
to be part of this unified organization.
Now, in contrast,
what do we see in the world?
Their governments and their religions
are all divided.
It’s disunited.
So maybe rephrasing the scripture,
this is what they’re experiencing now:
‘Look! How bad and how unpleasant it is
to dwell together in disunity!’
It’s a sad reality,
but our hope that we share with them
could change that very quickly.
So, what is it that makes
Jehovah’s organization (our organization)
so different, so special?
Two things:
It’s the language we speak
as well as the clothes we wear.
What do we mean by that?
Well, let’s go to Zephaniah 3:9
to see the language
that we have and are unified with.
At Zephaniah 3:9, it reads:
“[And] I will change
the language of the peoples
“to a pure language
[and we know that is a Scriptural truth],
“so that all of them
may call on the name of Jehovah,
to serve him shoulder to shoulder”
—or, as the footnote says,
“worship him in unity.”
So the privilege for us
to work shoulder to shoulder
with all those on earth is amazing!
And we see how we’re growing
and how much more united we are becoming.
But, really,
if we’re just looking at the earthly part,
we’re short-sighted.
We need to look at the heavenly part as well
and how we’re united
with Jehovah’s heavenly organization
shoulder to shoulder.
In fact, just to illustrate this,
we know that Jehovah’s hand of applied power
is steering his heavenly organization, right?
So we have this magnet here
that could be the celestial chariot.
Jehovah’s spirit
directly has that chariot move
based on what he wants
and what he directs with his holy spirit.
And connected to that is
the earthly part of his organization.
And as Jehovah moves the heavenly part,
the earthly part
is directly connected with it.
Well, where do we fit in?
Well, we can be likened to these
paper clips.
So as Jehovah moves his organization,
what happens from heaven down to the earth?
We are following right along with it.
But sometimes
—isn’t it true?—
as Jehovah moves his organization,
there’s a little bit of a whiplash happening
with all of us.
So we appreciate when Ezekiel
in his vision heard, “Wheelwork!”
That’s when the wheels went to work,
and that’s when Jehovah’s
heavenly organization was on the move.
But we appreciate that we need
to be on the move as well.
And by means
of “the faithful and discreet slave,”
we are getting from Jehovah
everything we need
to be unified, to be strong,
to worship Jehovah in pure worship
in harmony with his heavenly organization.
So we feed on the same spiritual food,
we hold
to the same Scriptural standards of conduct,
and we share
in the same vital work of preaching
and disciple-making work.
All of this unites Jehovah’s people
shoulder to shoulder.
Now, through Jehovah’s organization,
we have been fed so well
by the Governing Body
through our Watchtower,  through conventions,
assemblies, midweek meetings,
through JW Broadcasting®.
All of these have served
to unite us as a people.
In fact, you might remember,
just talking about JW Broadcasting,
that it was October of 2014
when the first broadcast aired,
and that was with Brother Lett.
And we know that was only in one language.
And now what do we have?
With the approval of the Governing Body,
they have increased the languages
starting first in English.
Now, we know
that the Gilead graduation has been added
and the annual meeting has been added
to the broadcast
throughout the year.
Well, originally,
the translators around the world
were doing their best to keep up with all
the other translation that was needed,
and they were not able to do
the Gilead graduation or the annual meeting.
But interestingly, the Governing Body
now has put those on as monthly broadcasts.
What has that done for the organization?
It has united us.
In 2016,
there were only 34 languages
able to translate the Gilead graduation.
Now 162 languages
have that deep spiritual truth.
And the same is true with the annual meeting.
Now thousands of our brothers and sisters
have that same spiritual food,
that feeding program
that we have been enjoying for many years.
So Jehovah’s organization is on the move.
It is united.
But the question is:
What about me?
Where do I fit in
to this unification of heaven and earth?
It really comes down to, again,
the language that we speak
—the “pure language”—
as well as the clothing that we wear.
What do I mean by that?
Let’s go to Colossians chapter 3,
and notice verse 14.
Colossians 3:14 says
that we should “clothe [ourselves]
with love.”
That’s the clothing.
And what does that help us with?
“For it is a perfect bond of union.”
Paul goes on to say in verse 12
what this clothing entails.
It’s “tender affections
of compassion, kindness,
humility, mildness, and patience.”
What it means,
if we’re wearing this,
is that we will continue
to “[put] up with one another,
“[forgiving] one another freely
“even if anyone has a cause for complaint
against another.
“Just as Jehovah freely forgave you,
you must also do the same.”
So love is the “perfect bond of union.”
Unity is based on love.
We worship Jehovah.
“God is love.”
His Son, Jesus, perfectly represented him,
mirrored every aspect of Him with love.
And Jesus said that his disciples
would be identified with love.
So in what ways can we be a unifying factor?
Well, as we just read,
we need to cultivate those godly qualities
of compassion, kindness, humility,
mildness, patience, forgiveness.
These are the qualities that hold us together
and keep us together unitedly.
Now, when we think
about that little illustration I used there,
working shoulder to shoulder
could have its problems.
Sometimes we could be bent out of shape
when we are working shoulder to shoulder.
Well, what do we need to keep in mind?
Again, it’s those qualities
of forgiveness, compassion, being yielding,
and not looking at our organization
as a way to climb some sort of ladder
to get more responsibility.
It’s everyone working in their place,
working together unitedly.
When we think about paper clips
(I did a little research on this),
paper clips come, of course,
in different shapes, sizes, and colors.
But what’s the purpose of a paper clip?
Isn’t it to hold pieces of paper together?
Isn’t that the same with you and me?
The purpose that we have
as Jehovah’s Witnesses
is to unite, to be a uniting factor,
in our family, in the congregation,
here at Bethel,
or in any aspect of our organization.
And it’s interesting
that the engineers of paper clips
actually have something
that is called “yield stress,”
or “the amount of stress needed
to permanently reshape the wire.”
If it has too much stress,
that means it’ll be hard to open
and unite the paper.
If it has too low of a yield stress,
then it becomes wimpy,
and it won’t hold anything together.
So we can see where you and I
need to have some rigidness in us.
We need to stand firm,
but we need to have those Christian qualities
to be yielding and to be peaceable.
And that’s what Paul was saying
at 1 Corinthians 1:10,
if you would turn there with me.
Having this “perfect bond of union”
means having unity
but not divisions and disunity.
First Corinthians 1:10 reads:
“Now I urge you, brothers,
through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
“that you should all speak in agreement
“and that there should be
no divisions among you,
“but that you may be completely united
in the same mind
and in the same line of thought.”
So, again, don’t allow a place
for Satan the Devil to cause divisions,
to distance us
from Jehovah and from his organization
both in heaven and on earth.
And we never want to be one
who will be a disuniting factor
by not putting on that new personality,
those Christian qualities.
And if we do get bent out of shape
from time to time,
like our little paper clip here,
Paul says at 2 Corinthians 13:11
that we
should “continue to . . . be readjusted.”
And we need to have
that same lowliness of mind,
‘considering others as superior to us’
by being yielding and being patient.
And if we do this,
we are aligning ourselves
with Jehovah’s organization,
both in heaven and on earth.
Well, there is our theme scripture for today.
We will be happy,
because ‘how good it is
and how pleasant it is
to dwell together in unity!’